Kappa - D2 - blog post (#16335)
supabase/supabase: apps/www/_blog/2023-08-08-supabase-local-dev.mdx

Follow the progress of the [Postgres Language Server on GitHub](https://github.com/supabase/postgres_lsp).

## Observability tools for Postgres

![Inspect your database](/images/blog/launch-week-8/day-2/inspect-your-database.png)

We’ve added [debugging utilities](https://supabase.com/docs/guides/database/inspect) to our CLI to identify production issues via the `supabase inspect db` command. This interface includes 19 different commands to help you solve everything from slow queries to redundant indexes.

A lot of the credit for this belongs to [Heroku’s pg-extras](https://github.com/heroku/heroku-pg-extras) feature, an amazingly useful set of functionality. We’ve adapted the work they started, added a few additional commands, and made it available for any Postgres database. Simply append the `--db-url` param to use these commands with your own Postgres database.

This is just a starting point for the Supabase inspector. We’ll grow this feature to become an essential part of your Postgres toolkit.

<summary>

> <details>- See full command<details>

Reviewer: @MildTomato @kiwicopple  details should go on the outside and summary here, right?

Reviewer 2: yup - https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/details

<img width="506" alt="image" src="https://github.com/supabase/supabase/assets/10214025/d78ab133-bfc4-4c09-9ae5-f48526f7f710">

Reviewer 3: think notion just copied it over wrong

With the new Postgres Language Server, we hope to make it as easy to write Postgres migrations as it is to develop applications in TypeScript, Go, Python, or Rust.

Finally, we’ve added a Migrations view [in the dashboard](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/database/migrations) to track your migration history to improve the discoverability of migrations.

<summary>
<details>- See full command<details>
    
    ```markdown
    supabase migration 
    Manage database migration scripts
    
    Usage:
      supabase migration [command]
    
    Available Commands:
      list        List local and remote migrations
      new         Create an empty migration script
      repair      Repair the migration history table
      squash      Squash migrations to a single file
      up          Apply pending migrations to local database
    ```
     </summary>

## Test and lint your database

![Test your database](/images/blog/launch-week-8/day-2/test-your-database.png)

> We’ve simplified the database testing experience, with `supabase test`. Runing `supabase test new` stubs out a [pgTAP test](https://pgtap.org/) for you to fill with testing logic. The CLI includes [pg_prove and the TAP harness](https://pgtap.org/pg_prove), so all you need to do is run `supabase test db`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We’ve simplified the database testing experience, with `supabase test`. Runnning `supabase test new` stubs out a [pgTAP test](https://pgtap.org/) for you to fill with testing logic. The CLI includes [pg_prove and the TAP harness](https://pgtap.org/pg_prove), so all you need to do is run `supabase test db`.
```

With the new Postgres Language Server, we hope to make it as easy to write Postgres migrations as it is to develop applications in TypeScript, Go, Python, or Rust.

Finally, we’ve added a Migrations view [in the dashboard](https://app.supabase.com/project/_/database/migrations) to track your migration history to improve the discoverability of migrations.

<summary>
<details>- See full command<details>
    
    ```markdown
    supabase migration 
    Manage database migration scripts
    
    Usage:
      supabase migration [command]
    
    Available Commands:
      list        List local and remote migrations
      new         Create an empty migration script
      repair      Repair the migration history table
      squash      Squash migrations to a single file
      up          Apply pending migrations to local database
    ```
     </summary>

## Test and lint your database

![Test your database](/images/blog/launch-week-8/day-2/test-your-database.png)

> We’ve simplified the database testing experience, with `supabase test`. When you run `supabase test new`, we’ll stub out a [pgTAP test](https://pgtap.org/). The CLI includes [pg_prove and TAP harness](https://pgtap.org/pg_prove), so all you need to do is run `supabase test db`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’ve simplified the database testing experience, with `supabase test`. Runing `supabase test new` stubs out a [pgTAP test](https://pgtap.org/) for you to fill with testing logic. The CLI includes [pg_prove and the TAP harness](https://pgtap.org/pg_prove), so all you need to do is run `supabase test db`. 
```

![Logs are now accesible locally in the dashboard](/images/blog/launch-week-8/day-2/local-logging-debugging.png)

## Stable releases

We’ve moved the Supabase CLI to a fortnightly stable-release cycle. Every 2 weeks, we will update the `[latest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/supabase?activeTab=versions)` tag on npm, the `[supabase/tap](https://github.com/supabase/homebrew-tap/blob/main/supabase.rb)` for homebrew, and the `[supabase](https://github.com/supabase/homebrew-tap/blob/main/supabase.rb)` scoop bucket. You can find the binary downloads in our GitHub [latest release](https://github.com/supabase/cli/releases/latest).

For the adventurous feature hunters, we’ve added a `beta` release channel for the CLI, with new releases on every PR merged. You can follow [this guide](https://github.com/supabase/cli#install-the-cli) to install Supabase CLI (beta).

## Branching and Preview Environments

And finally, probably our most anticipated feature - branching:

> ![Branch manager in the Supabase dashboard](/images/blog/launch-week-8/day-2/branching-preview-environments.png)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> ![Branch manager in the Supabase dashboard](/images/blog/launch-week-8/day-2/branching-preview-environments.png)

Reviewer 2: @MildTomato - I think we remove one of these right?

Reviewer 3: yea! removed.

![Searching branches with Supabase](/images/blog/launch-week-8/day-2/branching-02.png)

> We’ve made big improvements to our local development above - but we have bigger ambitions. For several months we’ve been developing Supabase branching. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We’ve made major improvements to our local development with the features above - but we have bigger ambitions. For several months we’ve been developing Supabase branching and today we're opening it up for alpha testers.
```

> Branching in Supabase isn’t simply a database, it’s an entire backend - everything from your Postgres database to your [50GB videos](https://supabase.com/blog/storage-v3-resumable-uploads). It drastically improves the experience of managing environments so that developers and teams can spend less time on DevOps and more time building their ideas faster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Supabase isn’t simply a database, it’s an entire backend - everything from your Postgres database to your [50GB videos](https://supabase.com/blog/storage-v3-resumable-uploads). Branching improves the experience of managing environments so that developers and teams spend less time on DevOps and more time building.
```

A good branching solution requires each tool to provide multi-tenancy support so that:

1. Data can be isolated from production for security.
2. Compute can be isolated from each other to avoid noisy-neighbors.

### How does branching work?

We use Git to bridge the gap between your local development environment and your hosted database. For now, we’ve focused on GitHub. 

Every time you open a new Pull Request on GitHub, a corresponding “Preview Environment” is created. Each preview branch is an isolated Firecracker instance that pauses automatically after a period of inactivity. Every time a change is pushed to GitHub, the migrations within the `./supabase/migrations` folder are run against the Preview Branch so that your entire team is working from the same source of truth.

When you hit merge on your Pull Request we run the migrations on your Production database.

### What about data?

We’re starting with seed data. Any SQL with  `./supabase/seed.sql` will populate your Preview Branch. This provides your entire team with an isolated and reproducible environment, safe from any data privacy concerns.

> Importantly, we *aren’t* cloning production data until we find something appropriate for data security. We know that copy-on-write is an available option, and with the appropriate anonymization techniques, it seems like a promising way to provide a “production-like” test environment. We’ll also need to figure out what this means for large files in Supabase Storage. Do you need to anonymize your photos and videos? This is a work in progress and we’re open to feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Importantly, we *aren’t* cloning production data until we find something appropriate for data security. We know that copy-on-write is an available option, and with the appropriate anonymization techniques it seems like a promising way to provide a “production-like” test environment. 

We’ll also need to figure out what this means for large files in Supabase Storage. Do you need to anonymize your photos and videos? This is a work in progress and we’re open to feedback.
```
